# Chocoleto #

**Chocoleto** is a new GNU/Linux distribution, based on Xubuntu, aimed at
curious kids of all ages. I've been revieweing distributions for kids
and none of them seem to take into account the curiosity of kids,
which is, from my perspective, one of the main characteristics to
exploit and advocate from kids and toddlers.

I'm also a programmer who would like my sons and daughters to learn
how to program, to understand computers and their architecture, from
an early age. As Isaac Asimov said, programmers are an important part
of future society. This future society he was referring to is THIS
society, the one we (and they) belong to.

## Purpose ##

This is not a general purpose Linux distribution, this is something
that will be installed in a computer meant for kids. It will be the
kid's computer, he will be able to use it all the time he wants, he
will be able to play with it all the time he wants, and will be
learning from it, every second he spends in front of the computer
screen.

How to achieve this? First, the computer should not drag him into
watching videos in Youtube and make him a unresponsive kid pressing
next at the end of each video, he needs to be constantly working and
learning with him. The computer will request the kid to go and do a
task so he can continue his investigation, so he will have to interact
with the world, brothers and sisters, friends and cousins, parents,
gran parents. This is meant to be a learning machine that will make
the kid interact with his surroundings.

**Chocoleto** will ask the kid to go out and investigate, find a leaf
on the garden, take a picture of it, register it and register the time
of the year, and to write or record what color is it, what smell does
to leaf have, how is the day outside: is it cold or warm? Did mommy or
daddy asked him to put his coat before going out? This will be a
complete and long process of study and investigation, and the
curiosity of the child will be always the priority.

**Chocoleto** will know about current events, events that are
important for kids to understand, it will follow the launch of the
James Webb Telescope into space and will show the kid pictures of its
launch and how things are going up there, **Chocoleto** will make the
child participate in this event, and will also allow him to
communicate with other kids and share his pictures with them, with new
friends, far away from home, from other cultures. The kid will receive
the first pictures of James Webb Telescope and these pictures will
have explanations about the galaxy, and the planets, and the
cosmos. Different kids with different ages will have different
explanations about what's going on.

**Chocoleto** will teach music to the kids, a big collection of
classic will be playable from the computer: classic music and music
from the world will be included and the kid will be able to select his
favorite music from the collection, he will learn the types of music,
the story of a particular song or composition, the instruments
performed, how a professional player performs that particular
instrument. He will also be able to find places he can visit to know
more about this music. We will contact musicians from all parts of the
world to allow us to put complete pieces of music for kids, but not
simplified versions of their songs, but complete pieces, and we will
not be afraid of treating the kids as smart as we are in terms of
music, because no matter how young he or she are, they will be able to
appreciate the music as any adult, even more.

**Chocoleto** will present a consistent interface through its
applications, there will be no more apps with different styles or that
looked patched or inserted in with no consistency with other apps,
**Chocoleto** will look as a real product aimed at intelligent and
curious kids. **Chocoleto** will not be a bunch of educational
software bundled into an operating system, it will make sense from
login screen, to application selection, to application interoperation,
to sharing, friends, and of course, recreational parts.

## Recreation ##

**Chocoleto** will not be always a learning machine, it will allow the
kid to distract himself, she will be able to watch a video or call
grandma if he wants (need to look into a usable video function that
works on iOS and Android), but those activities will be regulated by
mom and dad. He will be able to set goals for a day or week and then
access the recreational parts of **Chocoleto** like watching a Youtube
video (using our own controlled client) or draw freely using the
drawing app. The kid will have to *earn* his recreational time.

## Arts & Science ##

One of the main goals of **Chocoleto** is to make kids love arts,
science and knowledge, by pushing his creativity and curiosity by
teaching them about greatest works of art and science. Kids will learn
about painting and music, which is easy for kids to understand and
appreciate, from any classic painting you can ask the kid to draw
something but not using the screen, kids should not draw using a
mouse, he will use pen and paper and he will record these pieces of
art and store them in folders, that he will make with his own hands
(and with the help of mom, dad, granny, older brothers or
friends). There will be no painting or crafting software in
**Chocoleto**. Kids will not learn how to draw or will not appreciate
beauty of drawing if they use a computer (this applies to toddlers,
for teenagers there will be digital art packages).

Science will be presented by facts, aimed at different ages, for
toddlers we will teach why lava goes out from volcanos, what are the
dinosours, why and how birds float on air and why and how fish float
on the ocean, why the bear sleeps for many months a year, and how a
Python can digest an elephant for many weeks.

For kids from 6-9 kids, science will be presented as a process, not
only a collection of interesting facts, they will be thought how to do
science, how you **do** science, what is science, how is that we came
from interpreting star positions to have a clear understanding of the
cosmos. More important questions will arise when we are there. For now
I'm concentrating on a toddlers computer.
